# ChatGPT as Data Augmentation for Compositional Generalization: A Case Study in Open Intent Detection

## Introduction
Open intent detection, a crucial aspect of natural
language understanding, involves the identification
of previously unseen intents in usergenerated
text. Despite the progress made in
this field, challenges persist in handling new
combinations of language components, which
is essential for compositional generalization. In
this paper, we present a case study exploring
the use of ChatGPT as a data augmentation
technique to enhance compositional generalization
in open intent detection tasks. We begin
by discussing the limitations of existing benchmarks
in evaluating this problem, highlighting
the need for constructing datasets for addressing
compositional generalization in open intent
detection tasks. By incorporating synthetic data
generated by ChatGPT into the training process,
we demonstrate that our approach can effectively
improve model performance. Rigorous
evaluation of multiple benchmarks reveals that
our method outperforms existing techniques
and significantly enhances open intent detection
capabilities. Our findings underscore the
potential of large language models like ChatGPT for data augmentation in natural language
understanding tasks.

## Experiments
To effectively integrate paraphrases into the training process of BERT with
ADB (DA-ADB), three different strategies are evaluated. The first strategy involves synthesizing
10 paraphrases for each instance in the dataset (GPTAUG-F10), while the second strategy generates 4 paraphrases for each instance (GPTAUG-F4). The third strategy, on the other hand, focuses
on instances that the model predicts incorrectly at
the current iteration and synthesizes 10 paraphrases
for each of these instances (GPTAUG-WP10).

```
./open_intent_detection/examples/run_ADB.sh
./open_intent_detection/examples/run_DA-ADB.sh
./open_intent_detection/examples/run_ADB-BOOST-F-10.sh
./open_intent_detection/examples/run_ADB-BOOST-F-4.sh
./open_intent_detection/examples/run_ADB-BOOST-WP-10.sh
./open_intent_detection/examples/run_DA-ADB-BOOST-F-10.sh
./open_intent_detection/examples/run_DA-ADB-BOOST-F-4.sh
./open_intent_detection/examples/run_DA-ADB-BOOST-WP-10.sh
```

## Citation
If you use our source code in a research paper, please cite our work as follows:

```
@inproceedings{fang-etal-2023-chatgpt,
    title = "{C}hat{GPT} as Data Augmentation for Compositional Generalization: A Case Study in Open Intent Detection",
    author = "Fang, Yihao  and
      Li, Xianzhi  and
      Thomas, Stephen  and
      Zhu, Xiaodan",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop on Financial Technology and Natural Language Processing and the Second Multimodal AI For Financial Forecasting",
    year = "2023",
    address = "Macao",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2023.finnlp-1.2",
    pages = "13--33",
}
```
